Early Whale World Cards - (Three of Twelve)

1.	My life. Day one. Donned on a pair of sick shades to meet my fellow citizens of the new planet. Failed desperately to look cool while getting battered by the ocean winds. New home is like Noah never tasted rainbow and God drowned whatever species lived here before. One big ocean. Note to self, find sea legs. – Suni Wong, New People (2113) ✅

Camp:
	Alone in a large barnacle
	Together in the arc
	Party all night

2.	I am like, just, you know, the most untalented person on this island. It’s like this is paradise and everyone here is like an Adonis and I am like this sea monster. Everyone is doing amazing things and they take to whatever they are doing. Everything is so easy for them. This is hell. Why me? – Ruby Hoffman, New People (2113) ✅

Become:
	A scientist
	A fisher
	A teacher

3.	One night, as I watched the duel suns set with Dave, the beach lit up with thousands of lights. It was time for the angler slugs to slither onto shore and bury their eggs in the sand. They were such docile, kind and intelligent creatures. This was more than just the end of a mating ritual, it was a celebration for the angler slugs. I was enchanted by it all. – Edgar Cruz, New People (2120) ✅

Decide to:
	Domesticate
	Study
	Farm 
4.	I didn’t mind so much when they ate Jesus. He was a bitch. I didn’t even mind when they ate my first girlfriend Mai because we were breaking up anyway and everyone was really nice to me afterwards. When they took my leg though, that was it. It was personal. Time to do something about those big purple flowers. – Helena Aimee Dean, New People (2133) ✅

Utilise:
	Fire
	Shovels
	Human sacrifice

5.	Am I unhappy because I am unfulfilled? Or I am unfulfilled because I am unhappy? Is it bad to be this idle? I have taken to spending my days in a cave. The others think I am strange, but it’s just that I can’t bear to look up at that empty sky or out on that vast ocean. I am beginning to hate the colour blue. – Xian Lee, New People (2137) ✅

Treat with:
	Incarceration
	Pills
	Therapy

6.	So sure, life was tough in the beginning. We didn’t know the rules or the terrain, our strengths, our weaknesses. We are all just doing fine now. We know not to eat the green berries. We know not to go to the creaky beach at dusk. We even know where to get the hallucinogens. Is it just me though or does life feel less like an adventure now? – Nadia Olowe, New People (2135) ✅

We need:
	A festival
	A sea voyage 
	A gold rush

7.	The thing about two suns.
Is that the night never comes. 
But when it eventually does.
It is such a relief.  – Conal Green (2119) ✅

Your feedback:
	We should collaborate 
	It’s a masterpiece
	Art isn’t for everyone

8.	Dude, I only started this surf shop because the ocean is my jam. Now I have three shops and an option to franchise. You’d think I was living the dream but I can’t remember the last time I got to wax my board. Money corrupts, that’s all I’m saying. – Brad Basu, New People (2150) ✅

Advocate
	The free market
	Worker’s cooperatives
	Bartering

9.	He came in the night like a sneaky, conniving, sea urchin. I hadn’t slept since the last sunsset and I was out of it, dead to everything. He just waltzes in and takes the last of my dried blubber. I am sick of these people and their total lack of respect. He is a butthole. – Tabia Nagi, New People (2145) ✅

Retaliate by
	Moving across the Island
	Drawing up a Bill of Rights
	Stealing his sharkskin gloves
 
10.	She is just amazing. Yesterday she caught four hexifish, went for a ten-mile run and saved her younger brother from a scavenger toad. She kissed me last week in front of everyone, just so they knew I was hers. When I woke up this morning, I realised I was the happiest I have ever been. – Kimiko Park-Ki, New People (2167) ✅

The next step:
	Ask her father for her hand
	Propose an open relationship
	Pay for an expensive getaway

11.	A year to the day since we arrived on our new home and the suns have set. As if we had ordered some sort of fireworks display, the whole sky lights up in the most spectacular meteor shower. Lights dancing on a black stage, as if the whole planet is in celebration. Its like its saying ‘we are so glad you’ve come’. – Jan Douglas, New People (2114) ✅

Wish for:
	A long and happy life
	Riches
	A miracle cure

12.	My beard is as long and thick as the callouses on my feet. I am a champion. I am the Alpha! I carved these brushes from the antlers of a sporple! I ground the creepy crawlies to make my paint. I have made it my mission to walk this island alone on my bare feet, and nothing is safe from my keen eye. I will catalogue it all. – Omar Kamal, New People (2122) ✅

I am the greatest:
	Artist
	Cartographer
	Naturalist






===========================================
Mid Whale World Cards (Three of Twelve)

1.	There is just one life! One people! One universe! One chance! So, repeat after me. I am happy with myself, my life, my community, my friends, my family, and if I am not, I will speak, seek help and give my time to others. – Dr Yusef Erdogen-Brown, Author of Happiness is Found by Seekers. (2299)

Your next book:
	Choose Happy, How Individuals Can Free Themselves
	Corrupt Community and How to Change It
	Don’t Lie Down, You’re Not Dead Yet

2.	The people are crying out for culture! On the Arc, they read Austin; watch Seinfeld, dance to Britney, but where are our artists? Did they die in the old world? I say nay. My heart is drawn to the pen. My words will speak to them. This world must also be the stage. – Mo Churchill, Playwright. (2211)

Write about:
	The sexual frustration of man
	The despicable youth
	The fleeting nature of love

 
3.	I catch my reflection in the street and I see this waddling old lady. Her back is a scimitar, sharp and round. The Doctor says that our bodies were not built for the stronger gravity. I am too young to feel this way. Some days I wake up and I am not sure if there is anything left but my pain. – Aggie Gray, Patient (2283)

Prescribe:
	Painkillers
	Corrective surgery
	Community exercise

4.	Southside of the island destroyed by flooding. Fourteen dead including three children. Twenty-three missing. Over fifty families are now without homes. Mayor calls for volunteers, supplies and hosts. – Anya Wagner, Town Cryer (2290)

Head:
	To search for survivors
	Home
	A charitable organisation

5.	Mommy says that I am clever, it’s just that sometimes I get my Ps and my Bs mixed up. My favourite subject is History because I like learning about all the cool things they used to have on Earth like aeroplanes and superheroes. Mr Ito showed us a film where some superheroes stopped a nuclear war and it was SOOOO COOOLLL. – AJ Chow, Pupil (2273)

Learn:
	Your two times tables
	Fauna and flora
	Kindness



6.	Dear Fabian, when you are as fabulously wealthy as I am, life does get awfully dull. Do you ever find that old chap? I hear you are in the directing business now? Star Wars 19  at the Round? I imagine it is dreadfully exciting, but I am sure the monotony of life catches up with us all. Perhaps I just need a calling. Did you hear Snot-Flicker Gary has gone all religious on us? – Reginald Hadid, Lad of Leisure. (2252)

Your calling:
	Philanthropy
	Communism 
	Politics

7.	They are sooooo cute and fluffy and sad and poisonous and feral and lovable and wise and grumpy and pink and just amazing and PEOPLE KEEP EATING THEM!  I will be their saviour. I will protect them from the scourge of humans!! – Mya Yeaman, Activist (2256)

Start:
	Eco Terrorising
	A sanctuary
	Ranting whilst drunk

8.	Seeds. Moulds. Fungi. We keep them carefully contained. Everything from the old world must remain separate from the old world. Cocoa. Penicillin. Sugar. They stay on the arc. We must not let them infiltrate. Then again, who could possibly be blamed if something, just one small thing were to wiggle free? After all life will always find a way. – Lorcan Quinn, Horticulturist (2201)

Should you?
	Create giant terrariums
	Scatter seeds to the wind
	Keep the old world contained

9.	You don’t need a partner to be happy. I truly believe that you can live the most fulfilling life in the company of close friends and family. A year ago, I didn’t need anyone. Now, when I wake up and snuggle into to his shoulder and breath in his musky smell, I think this is happiness. But yesterday he didn’t come home.  Today he smells of someone else. – Rachel Oh, Infatuated (2273)

It is:
	Okay, he loves me no less
	A complete betrayal
	Time to get even

10.	The ocean is filthy. A century’s worth of rubbish circumventing the globe. I even found a plastic straw from the old world and something called McDonald’s Happy Meal toy. Bloody thing must be two-hundred and fifty-years old! Some sort of yellow eyed monster with one eye and blue dungarees. And we wonder where the fish have gone? – Lee Hemingway, Fisher (2233) 

The government should:
	Introduce a disposal tax
	Reduce, reuse & recycle
	Blast it into space.

11.	We live in such ugly little shacks and everyone just throws their crap in the ocean and all the guys pee in the street. Every waking moment, I plan, I sketch, I draw. I dream of those cities of our ancestors and their skyscrapers. Where will we put the fountains? Who will we build statues to? How will I install the golden toilets? – Ali Swann, Architect (2298)

Build:
	Skyscrapers
	Pyramids
	Eco-domes

12.	You may think this is paradise, my friends! You may think that humanity has entered a utopia! But any utopia that is on this plane of existence is, by its natural deception, a dystopia. Only God can bring humanity to his one true paradise. – Pastor Kevin Michaels, Prophet of the Old Earth Ways Foundation (2281)

Preach
	Love thy neighbour
	Peace comes from within
	Abstain from vain pleasure


==================================================
 

Late Whale World Cards (Three of Twelve)

1.	Today I had a me day in the steam kelp baths. It was bliss. I kept wiggling my toes in the mud just to feel the warmth of it rubbing against my skin and Jo massaged my back with hot stones. By the time I left, I was all shrivelled like a prune. I have never felt so relaxed in all my life. Why can’t it always be like this? – Tanya Santiago-Perez, Bather (2331)

Tomorrow, I will:
	Bring Jo flowers
	Have a lie in
	Get back to work

2.	Yasmin took her socks off her feet the other day and exposed herself to the whole market, Aiden! You know me, my face lit up like a lantern. Then I realised that she had taken one of them off when I wasn’t looking and I am just beside myself at this point. Her little webbed toes just there for all the world to see. I could have died! ¬– Nasrin Hassan, Parent (2302)

A good parent would:
	Know a little cosmetic surgery never hurt anyone
	Let nature run its course
	Nurture a professional athlete
 
3.	We have diseases coming out our eyeballs! Half of the population still have purple spots from Kepper Fever; almost everyone is on calcium supplements after Big Toes and Big Nose disease, and I lost my own mother to the Moon Landing Conspiracy but that’s another story. The next pandemic could be our last. – Dr Carter Nguyen, Chief Medical Officer (2391)

Recommend:
	Invest in the pharmaceutical industry
	Open-source information
	Herd immunity

4.	I swear to god if you delinquents don’t bugger off, I am going to start pouring boiling water out my window and if that doesn’t work, it will be my faeces next, and if you're still standing after that, it will be me out there in my underwear with a baseball bat. The two suns only set once every two weeks! Have you nowhere else to go? I need my sleep. –  Pierre Grossman, Neighbourhood Watch (2311)

Build:
	A skatepark
	A community garden
	A young offenders institution

Late Whale World Card 5 cannot be selected if the user already has Whale Blubber. (See items)
5.	Everyone thinks I am crazy and when I show them proof, they just give shrug me off with a patronising look of disbelief. There is nothing else for it. I am going to have to take one of the ‘old people’s pods below the surface and show them without a shadow of a doubt that it is not land we stand on, but the body of a whale-like giant. – Dr Priya Kumar, Biologist (2370)

Accept:
	The Nobel Prize.
	Their ignorance.
	The backing of an older male colleague

6.	Jacob Balinski, or the Baron as he is known, stands accused of cruel employment practices, tax fraud and assault. One victim of the defendant spoke of working twenty-one days without a break, whilst another was dismissed after filing paternity leave. Witnesses have all agreed that Mr Balinski is monstrous, but you must decide, is he criminal? – Judge Aurora Valenti (2421)

Find:
	Guilty on all counts
	The company is a separate legal entity
	The rights of the worker are paramount

7.	That old slimeball Pastor Michaels is trying to blackmail me into mandatory state prayers; the Webbed Feet Caucus are calling for an end to compulsory footwear in restaurants, and the animal rights activists want to lock up the remaining omnivores. Someone has to pay for my next election campaign, but these policies are political suicide. –  Bradley Basu III, Prime Minister (2372)

You can’t please everyone:
	Equal rights for webbed feeters
	Mandatory religious services in schools
	A ban on meat-eating

8.	They say that this is not an island at all but a giant fish of life. If that is not a money-making idea that is just waiting to be taken advantage of, I don’t know what is! They don’t call me the Baron for my tenacious tash! – Jake ‘The Baron’ Balinski (2400)

Start your business:
	Underwater tourism
	Whale oil
	T-Shirt stand

 
9.	Our society is becoming more and more unequal. I wonder if it as the ‘old people’ said, that humans are greedy, that we are sheep, that some are born for leadership, that authoritarianism is inevitable. But, if we no longer live on Earth, are we even human any longer? Are we doomed to make their mistakes? – Kwame Konadu, Politician (2352)

Introduce a Bill:
	Freedom of Healthcare Bill 2353
	Inheritance Tax (Amendment) 2352
	Higher Education (Grants and Subsidies) Bill 2353

10.	The tree huggers have started a drum circle in the jungle. One of them got poisoned by a siglax, the morons. They are standing in the way of progress and more importantly my profits and how do they expect us to feed the population when they won’t stop fornicating!! I am sick of these delusional, utopians. – Bill Javid, Industrialist (2412)

Persevere and:
	Clear the jungle
	Bribe law enforcement
	Negotiate

Late Whale World Card 11 cannot be selected if the user already has Talking to Animals for Dummies. (See items)
11.	Many of the inhabitants of the whale are much more intelligent than their counterparts on Earth seemed to be. They are fearful of us and distant, but they are also quietly wise with an ethos of cooperation and peace. I have observed that most are vegetarian and they have languages that appear to be cross-species. Of course, my colleagues laugh at my attempts to communicate. – Dr Priya Kumar, Biologist (2379)

Learn their:
	Language
	Ethics
	Habitats

Late Whale World Card 12 cannot be selected if the user already has Drones. (See items)
12.	I should take a break soon, my head is too foggy. I need noodles and a coffee. If there is just one thing I am grateful to the old people for, it is that they remembered to pack coffee beans. I can’t figure out these schematics at all and we don’t have enough of the right materials. I don’t think I will ever get these drones to fly. No, just think. Go over it once more. – Han Lee, Engineer (2433) 

Try:
	Change the power source
	Resource new planet materials
	Update the software
